✨ Template defaults with envsubst (#3270)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/book/src/clusterctl/provider-contract.md

#### Variables

The components YAML can contain environment variables matching the format ${VAR}; it is highly
recommended to prefix the variable name with the provider name e.g. `${AWS_CREDENTIALS}`

<aside class="note warning">

<h1>Warning</h1>

`clusterctl` supports variables with leading/trailing spaces and other meta

> characters such as: `${ VAR }`, `${ VAR}`,`${VAR }` and `${VAR$FOO}`.

Reviewer: it might be confusing to readers that it says here that clusterctl supports `${VAR$FOO}` and then below say it is no longer supported

Author: Thanks for the feedback! I'll try and clarify this a bit more.

in the near future. e.g. v1alpha4.

> Formats such as `${VAR$FOO}` is not supported.

Reviewer 2: Isn't this supported now? @CecileRobertMichon @wfernandes

Reviewer: Good point, it is

Author: This is still not supported. There has to be an expression character like `=`, `:=`, `:-" between the variables. This will result in an error.

#### Variables

The components YAML can contain environment variables matching the format ${VAR}; it is highly
recommended to prefix the variable name with the provider name e.g. `${AWS_CREDENTIALS}`

<aside class="note warning">

<h1>Warning</h1>

> `clusterctl` previously supported variables that matched the following
> formats: `${ VAR }`, `${ VAR}`,`${VAR }` and `${VAR$FOO}`.
> 
> The first three formats are currently supported but will be deprecated in the
> near future.
> <br/>
> The last format is no longer supported.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`clusterctl` supports also variables names with trailing/leading spaces (${ VAR }`, `${ VAR}`,`${VAR }`),
but this will be removed in the near future.
```
AFAIK ${VAR$FOO} is not a valid variable name; it will be also great to define" near futur, e.g. v1alpha4...

Author: I'll do the v1alpha4 timeline. I think that makes sense. The reason I entered the `${VAR$FOO}` was because we had tests for that specific variable (the original variable regex has a `$` in it --> `A-Za-z0-9_$`).

</aside>

`clusterctl` uses the library [drone/envsubst][drone-envsubst] to perform
variable substitution. In order to provide defaults to the variables, one of
the following conventions may be used.

```
${VAR:=default}
${VAR=default}

> ${VAR:-default}

Reviewer 3: I don't know the specific of the library we are using, but AFAIK as i know there are differences betwenn `:=`, `=`, `:-`
I have found some documentation here https://github.com/a8m/envsubst#docsm but I think that we should provide something similar for every transformation supported by drone.

Author: I wanted to document just the "default" transformations here since that's most relevant for our use cases and if users were interested in other transformations then they could reference the original drone/envsubst docs. Another reason I was avoiding document every transformation was just in case drone/envsubst changed over time for whatever reason.

I'll definitely test out the other formats `=`, `:-` and document those better. Thanks!

Author: I can provide this link as a source of documentation for the other transformations instead of re-documenting it here as well.

Author: On second thought, it seems that the drone/envsubst implementation does not follow the spec here: http://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/refcards.html#AEN22728

So I'll just update the docs as much as I can for now.

Author: The current code treats all the above as the same syntax regardless if the `VAR` is set or empty.

https://github.com/drone/envsubst/blob/a79604a7a2149df6ff9f6b20b2ff188112a777b6/template.go#L150-L151
```golang
	case "=", ":=", ":-":
		return toDefault
```

https://github.com/drone/envsubst/blob/a79604a7a2149df6ff9f6b20b2ff188112a777b6/funcs.go#L54-L59
```golang
func toDefault(s string, args ...string) string {
	if len(s) == 0 && len(args) == 1 {
		s = args[0]
	}
	return s
}
```

I'll see if I can submit PRs to drone/envsubst to fix them.

Reviewer 3: kk, for getting started let's document the status quo: what are the syntax supported by drone and all the nuances (different syntax doing the same)
Then, if there is a need/a use case to be addressed, we can start opening issues/sending PRs to drone
